Have you ever gone to the Club Fair and been completely overwhelmed? Or have missed club events because you did not know they were happening? We have, so we created a new app called ClubGate where you can find a list of all the clubs at Colgate, who to contact, events a club is hosting and more. Not only can you find an organized list of all the clubs at Colgate depending on type (Arts, Music, Science, etc) but you can also keep track of the clubs you are a part of. Although we have GetInvolved, it is often not updated and many new clubs can’t be found on there. ClubGate would also be a much more feasible option for club leaders to add meeting dates, auditions and post announcements. ClubGate would keep an updated list of current Colgate clubs, club events and more.

Our application was designed using only Java. We were able to learn about JFrame class which allowed us to encode buttons, create an average phone size screen, scroll panels and more. We started with a Login page where you can Register if you do not have a valid Login. Our program checks if the user has a valid Login or not, and if you do not, it will not open the Homescreen. If you have a valid Login, you will be brought to the Homescreen where there will be upcoming club events. You will see seven different tabs, five on the bottom, and two on the top. The Home button will bring you to the Homescreen, the Baseball button will bring you to an organized list of all the clubs, the Calendar button will bring you to an interactable calendar that shows your club events, the Person icon button will bring you to a list of all clubs you are active in and the mail button will bring you to an inbox. On the top left corner, there is a Penguin icon which represents your Profile. If you click on this button you will be brought to your Profile page where you can return back to the HomeScreen or Logout. The button on the top right is the Notifications button, where anyone can send you direct messages. On your Profile page and Notifications page, there are back buttons to return the user to the Homescreen. For every other page, the top and bottom bars are always found so a user can move from one page to another directly.

We began our process by trying to create this app through programs such as Figma. However, after working through a few programs, we realized that we would rather code the project and design each graphic by hand to implement the app through Java. It was definitely difficult to code each aspect without using any UserInterface program, but we learned a lot and felt we truly understood what was going on in the Back End and Front End of the program. We additionally tried using SQL to validate Logins but found we had to scratch this idea and were able to do this in Java.

This application could be available to all Colgate students but also could be used at any University or School. This would be a more feasible option for students to know upcoming club events and also keep up with all the new clubs that are forming. Overall, we believe that this could be extremely beneficial for students to get more involved in campus activities and help students find new clubs they are interested in.
